h2. A. Draw System

The draw system which will be used for all tests in Nexus: Auckland Awakening will be 40 Draw Pool.

This system uses a 40 card deck, from which the standard pool (attribute + skill + bonus etc.) used in the nWoD tabletop system is dealt in cards.  Every 8+ drawn is a success and the deck is re-shuffled before dealing any additional cards for “X-again” mechanics.  If “X-again” mechanics recur then the deck is NOT re-shuffled again but rather cards simply continue to be dealt until the recurrence ends.

Where an ST is present they will deal cards for tests while either player may deal for any tests where the ST is not present.  Only tests made in the presence of an ST or at least one non-cabal member will be considered binding by the STs.

h2. B. Character Creation

h3. Age

Currently under the age of 18: ST Team Approval
Awakened under the age of 10: ST Approval

h3. Type

Banishers, Seers of the Throne, Left-Handed Legacies: ST Approval
The Mad: Not permitted for play
Sleepwalkers: ST Approval.
Proximus: ST Approval
Second Sight Templates: Not permitted for play
Illuminates: ST Approval (Illuminates use normal Proximus character creation rules)

h3. Gnosis

Characters may start play with a Gnosis of up to 3 bought with Backgrounds at character creation or with XP.
All Gnosis increases require ST Team Approval.

h3. XP Allowances

All characters must be created without any xp as basic Mages.
Banisher characters ONLY may use the optional character creation rules in the Banishers book.

XP will be awarded during the 4 week sanctioning period according to the following standards:
Each Wednesday Night introductory session attended: up to 20xp (Magic Rules 101, WoD Combat 102, Auckland Lex Magica and Introductory Story)
Submission of background: up to 20xp
Submission of Cabal background: up to 20xp per member
Seeking Scene: up to 20xp (may be submitted in a written format, but higher standards apply)
Achievement of all 7 other allowances: 10xp

All xp allocations are at the discretion of the characters faction ST.

h2. C. Organisations

h3. “Order” Membership

For the purposes of this section, 'Order' refers to an Order, Ministry, Whisper or Vision. Characters can hold status in multiple Orders without restriction. 

Membership in an Order at character creation allows access to all rote specialties and Order specific rotes of that group.

Membership in a second (or more) Order entitles a character to purchase the Order's rote specialties using the rules for rote specialties as backgrounds in Banishers.  This also allows access to Order specific rotes. 

Rote specialties are not tied to particular rotes (as indicated in White Wolf's books) but are instead techniques and particular secrets practiced by the individual Orders.

h3. Order Status

Order status functions as per the rules in Mage: The Awakening, however no XP charges apply to Order status and this will be increased and decreased as appropriate by your Faction ST.

h3. Consilium Status

Consilium status functions as per the rules in Mage: The Awakening, however no XP charges apply to Consilium status and this will be increased and decreased as appropriate by your Faction ST.


h3. Legacies

Joining a Legacy requires ST Approval.

Creating a custom Legacy requires ST Team Approval. Custom Legacies do not require the  character to be the creator, but the character is treated as a legacy creator for the purpose of gnosis requirements and attainments.
Joining a sanctioned custom Legacy requires the approval of an existing member of the legacy, otherwise normal approval levels apply.
 
Characters with PC Mentors for their Legacy pay 1 XP per month to their Mentor Character for their Second and Third attainments. This is limited to 12 XP per attainment, or a total of 24 XP spent in this manner. This XP may be spent out of normal XP or Arcane XP.

A Mentor may only gain the benefit of this XP if they have actively mentored the student that month. The player of the Mentor must spend a downtime action to teach their student.

Characters inducted into a Legacy by an NPC Mentor must have the Mentor Merit. NPC Legacy Mentors with their First Attainment are a minimum of 3-dot Mentors. Each additional Attainment requires an additional dot of the Mentor Merit.  This means a Mentor with their second attainment is a 4-dot Mentor, and the Third Attainment requires a 5-dot Mentor.

Characters with an NPC Mentor do not pay their mentor XP whilst learning their attainments, that cost is reflected by the purchase of the Mentor Merit.

h3. Additional Legacy Rules

Legacies without a parent Order are considered to have the parent Order of their Order book (if from an Order book) or to have no parent Order.

Austere [Guardians of the Veil]: The Primary Arcanum for this Legacy is Matter.  

Awakening Gambit [Adamantine Arrow] 
	Spells hung with En Passant may only be instant cast, not ritual cast.
	The Second Optional Attainment works as per Shifting Sands – including activation, retained damage and detection; but the Mana cost is as per the Attainment write-up.
	The Third Optional Attainment works as follows: The PC can inquire what their dice pool would be for an action instead of taking a number of different actions – once they fail a Resolve + Composure draw or inquiry a number times equal to their Time dots they must take the last action, unless they successfully use the Second Optional Attainment as per the Attainment write up.

The Blank Badges [Free Council]:
	Not a Number fails if it is used to gain status that would require ST Approval.
	The Quiet One allows a Blank Badge to deduct the successes drawn from the Paradox severity they are about to suffer.
	 Nothing is True, Anything is Permitted adds the Blank Badge’s activation draw to the Paradox Test in the same manner as spending Mana for mitigation.

Perfected Adept [Mage: the Awakening]: The Attainments Chi Force and Perfect Body add the character’s Life dots to their attributes, not Mind dots.

Threnodists [Legacies: The Sublime]: The first Attainment of the Threnodists requires Investigation 2 rather than "Awareness 2."  

The Timori [Banishers]: Not permitted for play.

Uncrowned King [Mage: the Awakening]: The Attainment Albedo requires Gnosis 5, Mind 3. The Attainment Rubedo requires Gnosis 7 and Mind 4.

Unforgotten Scions [Mysterium]: They are considered a Left-handed Legacy and require ST Approval.

Spirits created by Eternal Dreams grow per chapter. The Spirit grows to the rank of the caster’s Mind Arcanum minus 1 and is affected by “Spells to Employ Spirits” as normal. Eternal Dreams cannot be used more than once every three months.

Wraiths of Epochs [Mysterium]: ST Team Approval.  

h3. Magical Traditions

Joining a Magical Tradition requires ST Approval.

Characters may join multiple Magical Traditions, but may only gain mechanical benefits from a number of Traditions equal to their Gnosis.

In addition to the requirements of “Awakened, Occult 2, Academics or Occult Skill Specialty representing the tradition”, each additional Tradition a character joins increases the Occult requirement by 1.

Custom Magical Traditions which do not confer mechanical benefits require ST Approval.
Custom Magical Traditions which confer mechanical benefits require ST Team Approval.

h2. D. Additional Rules

h3. Arcana

Creative Thaumaturgy is not available for play.  

Rote ideas may be submitted to an ST and upon approval by the ST Team will become available for play when added to the official rote library.

Archmasters and the Imperial Mysteries are not available for play.

Modifications of a spell that require advanced arcana knowledge are not cumulative. 

Resistant damage may only be self-inflicted or caused by absorbing paradox. No effect can cause resistant damage in others. Any such affects are converted to normal damage.

h4. Spells to Employ Spirits

A Willpower point is spent for each spirit bound or otherwise controlled. This cannot be recovered until the spell ends or a Willpower dot is spent to release it.

These restrictions not apply if a spell is used in the process of purchasing a Merit such as a Fetish, Familiar or Guardian Spirit. 

h4. Rotes & Spellcasting

Rote titles that include the name of your Faction do not require approval (Seers of the Throne, Nephandi and Banishers are considered 'Factions' for the purposes of this rule).

Rotes that include an alternative test pool based on an individual Faction do not require approval for members of that Faction and are not available to other characters.

Rote titles that include the name of a Legacy, Tradition or other non-Faction groups do not require approval for members of that group and are ST Team Approval for all other characters.

The creation of custom rotes by master level characters requires ST Team approval before the rote can be used in play. 

Custom rotes are ST Approval to learn in game from another player character.

Characters are not required to purchase separate rotes for each arcana level of a spell.  Characters that purchase the base Rote gain access to additional effects as their Arcana mastery increases.

Rotes from the Guardians of the Veil book that refer to the "Perception" Attribute use the Wits attribute instead.

h4. Instant Spellcasting

Voluntary penalties taken by the caster using metamagic effects may not reduce the caster’s draw pool below 1, however further penalties taken after the creation of the spell (resitance traits, defense etc) may do so.
 
h4. Dispel/Counterspell

Counterspell and dispel successes are not cumulative within the same combined casting, but may target multiple spells.

h4. Limitations to Bonuses and Traits

No single Trait or bonus created by a spell can exceed the level of the Caster’s relevant Arcanum.  

If a player requires information from another character’s sheet (e.g. if contested, resisted, etc) to cast a spell, then their character cannot ritually cast and hold such a spell as Prepared for offensive use.

Bonuses added to an item from Arcana do not stack, only the highest bonus is applied.

h4. Failed Social and Mental Tests

Spells are considered social or mental tests if their rote pool uses a social or mental skill, or if they are opposed by composure or resolve.

h4. Sympathetic Magic

Any spell affecting multiple targets always uses the weakest sympathetic connection of those targets.

Penalties from Occultation and Fame apply both to all sympathetic magic.
 
h4. Specific Rote Alterations


	Acidic Spatter [Adamantine Arrow]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Activate Police Band [Banishers]: Not sanctioned for play.

	Alien Highway [Banishers]: Not sanctioned for play.

Annihilate Spells [Banishers]: This spell can be used to target hung spells, but requires the caster to beat the target spell’s potency in all cases (normal and hung spells).

Astral Journey [Astral Realms]: The Space 5 version of this spell requires the caster be in a location where they are capable of reaching the Astral.

	Atonement [Legacies: The Ancient]: This spell requires ST Team approval to use in any format.

	Bodyguard's Blessing [Adamantine Arrow]: This spell may only change the target of an Aimed spell.

	Bolster Virtue [Keys to the Supernal Tarot]:  Not sanctioned for play.

Climbing the Tree [Magical Traditions]:  This spell requires ST approval to use in any format if Arcane Experience is gained as a result of its use. This spell may be used for dramatic or information-gathering effect, without the caster gaining Arcane Experience.

	Create Ghost [Mysterium]:  This spell is ST Team approval to use when cast on a player character.

Defer Conscience [Adamantine Arrow]: This spell may not be used in conjunction with "Suppress Wisdom".

	Desiccate [Banishers]: This spell is not sanctioned for play.

	Diplomat’s Protection [Silver Ladder]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Eleggua’s Notice [Magical Traditions]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	False Signature [Adamantine Arrow]:  Adding this spell to another counts as a Combined Spell.

	Five-Cycle Spell Theft [Magical Traditions]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Fortune's Fool [Adamantine Arrow]: Not sanctioned for play.

	Imbue Animal [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Induce Vertigo [Banishers]: Not sanctioned for play.

	Kinetic Ripple [Adamantine Arrow]: The damage inflicted by this spell is not Resistant.

	Know Virtue [Keys to the Supernal Tarot]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Luck Blessing [Magical Traditions]: This spell function as per “Reading the Outmost Eddies”.

	Maintained Sympathy [Astral Realms]: This spell uses real-world sympathy.

	No Exit [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

Past Life Regression [Magical Traditions]: A subject under the effects of this spell is not denied their surprise test if attacked.  

	Pierce Magical Shield [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

Psychic Assault [Mage: The Awakening]: Only affects astral creatures, psychic constructs and appropriate spirits.  Deals no damage to physical targets, including humans.

Psychic Sword [Mage: The Awakening]: Only affects astral creatures, psychic constructs and appropriate spirits.  Deals no damage to physical targets, including humans.

	Sacrifice Fortune [Tome of Mysteries]:  Not sanctioned for play.

Scorched Earth [Banishers]: A category 5 Scorched Earth requires the caster to check twice and take the worst option when making paradox tests to determine the severity of a paradox effect.

	Scour Other’s Pattern [Tome of Mysteries]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Shadow Forged [Adamantine Arrow]: Items created using this spell may not be further enhanced.    

	Spell Cloaks [Tome of Mysteries]: This effect requires Prime 3.

	Spirit Highway [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Stammer [Banishers]: This spell is resisted by the targets Composure.

	Steal Body [Free Council]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Temporal Lifeline [Free Council]:  Not sanctioned for play.

	Trojan Horse [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

The Golem [Magical Traditions]:  This rote may not create a Golem with a Size greater than the caster’s Gnosis or Matter, whichever is higher.

	Universal Bane [Banishers]:  Not sanctioned for play.

Weaponize Object [Adamantine Arrow]:  The maximum equipment bonus this spell can generate is equal to the casters Matter Arcarna.

Worst Moment [Banishers]: This spell uses the mechanical variant available, no more than two successes may be 'spent' on any one action.

h4. Arcane Experience

Arcane XP can only be spent to increase Gnosis, Arcana or to buy Rotes.

h3. Merits

All merits that are 'Faction specific' in their write up (Banisher only, Order only) may not be purchased by non-faction members.


	Astral Adept [Magical Traditions]: Not sanctioned for play.
	Athenaeum [Mysterium]: ST Approval, available to suitable Mysterium Cabals only.
	Claws of the Abyss [Banishers]: The effects of this merit last a scene.
Fighting Style: Adamantine Hand [Adamantine Arrow]:  Star: This may not be used to combine two detrimental effects on a single target.
	Graduate of Otranto [Mysterium]: Not sanctioned for play. 
Oathbound [Adamantine Arrow]: For the purposes of this merit, players regain Oath points every calendar month.
	Predator’s Innocence [Tome of the Watchtowers]: Not sanctioned for play.
	Ractin Strain [Intruders: Encounters With the Abyss]:  ST Approval
Ritual Synergy [Tome of Mysteries]: This merit is sanctioned for play. The listed gnosis requirements are waived.
	Scriptorium [Mysterium]: ST Approval, available to suitable Mysterium Cabals only. 
	Talisman of Universal Safety [Silver Ladder]: Not sanctioned for play.
Whispers [Mysterium]: ST Approval.

h3. Items

h4. Imbued Items

Imbued items up to 5 dots do not require approval. Items over 5 dots require ST Approval.

h4. Enhanced Items

Enhanced items up to 5 dots do not require approval. Items over 5 dots require ST Approval.
Items made of Thaumium are 5 dot Enhanced Items.

h4. Artifacts/Imbued Items/Enhanced Items

All custom artifacts require ST Team Approval.
Canon artifacts require ST Approval.
Artifacts with custom mechanics require ST Team Approval.
Artifacts function the same as Imbued Items in regard to Potency and Spell Tolerance.
The possession of an artifact does not confer a bonus to Order Status. Possession of an artifact can grant +1 to Social rolls with other Mages if the target Mage is aware of the artifacts Legend, and it is relevant to the challenge.

Enhanced Items can contain effects from the following rotes: Alter Integrity , Alter Efficiency , Alter Size , Decreased Size, Armor, Bulletproof, and Durability alterations. Armor is limited to a bonus equal to the caster's dots in Matter.  

h4. Specific Items

	Alien Cuffs [Banishers]: Not sanctioned for play.
	Raiment of Return [Adamantine Arrow]: Not sanctioned for play
	Translator Chamber [Banishers] Not sanctioned for play
The Truck [Banishers] Not sanctioned for play

h4. Alchemical Items

Alchemical gross material carries an Intimate sympathetic connection
to its creator.

Storage and creation: Alchemical items are not supposed to be
indefinite storage devices. ToM 145: "Alchemical substances are
lesser Enchanted Items that are consumed during use and never possess
indefinite durations." 

h4. Fetishes

All fetishes must conform to the 'Create Fetish' rote and must used sanctioned Numina from Mage: The Awakening. 
	No other numina are currently sanctioned. 
	Fetishes have a cost equal to the rank of the spirit, plus one for every numina it possesses after the first. 
	All activation rolls for numina use the casters Gnosis+Spirit.

	Supernal Summoning [Summoners]

	Metatron: ST Team Approval to Summon.
	The Harbinger: ST Team Approval to Summon
	The Bird of Fortune: Provides Resources 5 of exotic alchemical materials per summoning.
	The Metal Smith: The Smith will craft no item greater than size 3.

	Summonings From Beyond [Summoners]

	All the listed canon summonings from beyond require ST Team Approval. 

	Pacts [Summoners]

All pacts should be designed by the storyteller and any with a duration of one month or greater require ST approval, in addition, the following approval levels apply to pacts.

	Bonuses total (Request + Term) 
        		4 to 8: ST Approval required. 
        		9 or more: ST Team Approval required. 
	Term:
        		A year and a day:  ST Approval required. 
        
	Epic pacts require ST Team Approval.

h2. E. Optional Rules

The following books have sanctioned optional rules in Nexus: Auckland Awakenings, any optional rules not listed below are considered unsanctioned.
 
	Tome of the Mysteries

	Optional rules for the Duel Arcane on pg 122.

h2. F.Sanctioned Books

	Adamantine Arrow
	Astral Realms
	 	Grant Influence Numina [Astral Realms]: Not sanctioned for play. 
	Banishers
		All information in this book is ST Approval.
	Boston Unveiled
	Free Council
	Guardians of the Veil
	Grimoire of Grimoires
All new rotes, legacies and merits in this book can only be learned through ST Team Approval or through in-game play. Additionally, all interaction (including historical interaction) with items from this book require ST Approval.
		It requires ST Approval to improvisationally cast these unique effects. 
	Intruders: Encounters With the Abyss
	Keys to the Supernal Tarot
	Legacies: The Ancient
	Legacies: The Sublime
	Mage: the Awakening
	Magical Traditions
	Mysterium
	Reign of the Exarchs
	Sanctum and Sigil
	Secrets of the Ruined Temple
	Seers of the Throne	
	Silver Ladder
High Legalese: A Silver Ladder PC requires Academics 4, Occult 4 and a specialization in Lex Magica to invoke High Legalese. A PC who is not a member of the Silver Ladder may not invoke High Legalese.
		Cryptopoly Cults: These fall under storyteller control at all times.
	Summoners
	Tome of the Mysteries
	Tome of the Watchtowers


